Lapointe JA, Duplain LO, Proulx MA. A single glutamyl-tRNA synthetase aminoacylates tRNAGlu and tRNAGln in Bacillus subtilis and efficiently misacylates Escherichia coli tRNAGln1 in vitro. Journal of Bacteriology. 1986 Jan;165(1):88-93.

Siatecka, Miroslawa, et al. "Modular evolution of the Glx‐tRNA synthetase family: Rooting of the evolutionary tree between the bacteria and archaea/eukarya branches." European Journal of Biochemistry 256.1 (1998): 80-87.

Lamour, Valérie et al. "Evolution of the Glx-tRNA synthetase family: the glutaminyl enzyme as a case of horizontal gene transfer." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 91.18 (1994): 8670–8674.

Skouloubris, Stéphane, et al. "A noncognate aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase that may resolve a missing link in protein evolution." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 100.20 (2003): 11297-11302.

Salazar, Juan C., et al. "Coevolution of an aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase with its tRNA substrates." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 100.24 (2003): 13863-13868.

Tumbula, Debra L. et al. "Domain-specific recruitment of amide amino acids for protein synthesis." Nature 407 (2000): 106-110.

Wilcox, Michael, and Nirenberg, Marshall. "Transfer RNA as a cofactor coupling amino acid synthesis with that of protein." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 61.1 (1968): 229-236.

Schön, Astrid, et al;, "Protein biosynthesis in organelles requires misaminoacylation of tRNA." Nature 331 (1988) 187-190.

Curnow, Alan W., et al., "Glu-tRNAGln amidotransferase: A novel heterotrimeric enzyme required for correct decoding of glutamine codons during translation." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 94.22 (1997): 11819–11826.

Becker, Hubert D., and Kern, Daniel. "Thermus thermophilus: a link in evolution of the tRNA-dependent amino acid amidation pathways." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 95.22 (1998): 12832-12837.




Lin, Brian Y., Patricia P. Chan, and Todd M. Lowe. "tRNAviz: explore and visualize tRNA sequence features." Nucleic acids research 47.W1 (2019): W542-W547.

Giegé, Richard, and Gilbert Eriani. "The tRNA identity landscape for aminoacylation and beyond." Nucleic Acids Research 51.4 (2023): 1528-1570.


Douglas, Jordan, et al. "Enzymic recognition of amino acids drove the evolution of primordial genetic codes." Nucleic Acids Research (2023): gkad1160.

Daniel Y. Dubois, Jacques Lapointe and Shun-ichi Sekine. "The Aminoacyl-tRNA Synthetases" CRC Press (2005): Chapter 10: Glutamyl-tRNA Synthetases.




Gomez, Miguel Angel Rubio, and Michael Ibba. "Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases." Rna 26.8 (2020): 910-936.




Rath, Virginia L., et al. "How glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase selects glutamine." Structure 6.4 (1998): 439-449.



Chung, Scisung, et al. "Regulation of BRCA1 stability through the tandem UBX domains of isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase 1." Nature Communications 13.1 (2022): 6732.



Eswarappa, Sandeep M., et al. "Metabolic origin of the fused aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase." Journal of Biological Chemistry 293.49 (2018): 19148-19156.






Mailu, Boniface M., et al. "A nondiscriminating glutamyl-tRNA synthetase in the Plasmodium apicoplast: the first enzyme in an indirect aminoacylation pathway." Journal of Biological Chemistry 288.45 (2013): 32539-32552.





Hadd, Andrew, and John J. Perona. "Coevolution of specificity determinants in eukaryotic glutamyl-and glutaminyl-tRNA synthetases." Journal of molecular biology 426.21 (2014): 3619-3633.





Perona, John J., and Andrew Hadd. "Structural diversity and protein engineering of the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases." Biochemistry 51.44 (2012): 8705-8729.



Siatecka, Miroslawa, et al. "Modular evolution of the Glx‐tRNA synthetase family: Rooting of the evolutionary tree between the bacteria and archaea/eukarya branches." European Journal of Biochemistry 256.1 (1998): 80-87.



Simader, Hannes et al. "Structural basis of yeast aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase complex formation revealed by crystal structures of two binary sub-complexes." Nucleic Acids Research 34.14 (2006) 3968-3979.




Frechin, Mathieu et al. "Yeast mitochondrial Gln-tRNAGln is generated by a GatFAB-mediated transamidation pathway involving Arc1p-controlled subcellular sorting of cytosolic GluRS." Genes & Development 23.9 (2009) 1119-1130. 




Cerini, Claire, et al. "A component of the multisynthetase complex is a multifunctional aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase." The EMBO Journal 10.13 (1991) 4267-4277.



Mirande, Marc, et al. "Seven mammalian aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases co-purified as high molecular weight entities are associated within the same complex." The EMBO Journal 1.6 (1982) 733-736.



Bandyopadhyay, Kumar, Alok, and Deutscher, Murray, P. "Complex of aminoacy-transfer RNA synthetases." Journal of Molecular Biology 60. (1971) 113-122.



Park, Sang, Guy, et al., Functional expansion of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases and their interacting factors: new perspectives on housekeepers." TRENDS in Biochemical Sciences 30.10 (2005) 569-574.




Sampath, Prabha, et al., "Noncanonical Function of Glutamyl-Prolyl-tRNA Synthetase: Gene-Specific Silencing of Translation" Cell 119 (2004) 195–208.



Arif, Abdul, et al., "EPRS is a critical mTORC1-S6K1 effector that influences adiposity in mice." Nature 542.7641 (2017) 357-361.



Jia, Jie, et al., "WHEP domains direct noncanonical function of glutamyl-Prolyl tRNA synthetase in translational control of gene expression." Molecular Cell 29.6 (2008) 679-90.

