

The GST-like domains, named after the C-terminal domain in glutathione S-transferases, is found at the N-termini of some eukaryotic [MetRS](/class1/met), [GluRS](/class1/glu3), ValRS and a tissue-specific splice isoform of the human CysRS enzymes (Guo et al., 2010). GST-domains are only found in eukaryotic aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases and are completely absent in prokaryotic aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, suggesting their comparatively new addition (Guo et al., 2010). Generally speaking GST-like domains are predominantly alpha-helical domains that adopt a 4-helical bundle fold and mediate protein-protein interactions (Paysan-Lafosse, 2023). In aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases GST-like domains contribute to the formation of a multisynthease complex as well as interactions with other proteins. 

In the multisynthetase complex, four GST domains form a tetrameric complex to connect the N-terminus of MetRS, the N-terminus of EPRS, and the adapter proteins AIMP2 and AIMP3 (Cho et al, 2019). Interestingly, the usage of GST-like domains to connect aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases is also found in the much small aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase complex in yeast, where MetRS and GluRS form a complex with the adapter protein Arc1p via GST-like domains (Simader et al., 2006). 

In ValRS, the GST-like domain at the N-terminus mediates the interaction with the heavy form of the mammalian translation elongation factor complex, eEF-1H, which is comprised of the subunits α, β, γ, and δ (Bec et al., 1994). Specifically ValRS interacts with eEF-1δ (Bec et al., 1994). In CysRS, a GST-like domain is added through the inclusion of exon 2, the corresponding splice isoform shows a tissue-specific expression pattern and is predominantly found in testis (Kim et al., 2000). If present, the inclusion of the GST-like domain reduced aminoacylation activity but enabled the interaction between CysRS with the translation elongation factor-1γ (eEF1γ) (Kim et al., 2000).
